The Linux Operating System is made up of distributions like Debian, Cent OS, Fedroa, Linux Mint and Ubuntu.
Linux is considered to be more secure than many other operating systems because processes are naturally isolated from 
each other. One process normally cannot access the resources of another process, even when that process is running with
the same user privileges. Linux thus makes it difficult (though certainly not impossible) for viruses and security exploits 
to access and attack random resources on a system.
The Linux system distributions are growing in popularity which also means growing exploits.

The security of any given system starts with the user. Every user of a system has a unique identifier that is known like a 
User ID which identifies a particular individual. To access the system a password is required which authenticates that it
is who the User claims to be, that is something only you know. The password is never to be shared at any given time to avoid
being compromised. When the authentication is done, the user gets the authorization to use the system. Every user is only
authorised access in the system up to the limit provided.

Installation of an anti virus should not be dismissed. It's true, Linux systems are far more secure than other operating
systems but it's better not to take any chances. The anti virus wards off malicious attacks especially when connected to 
the internet keeping your computer running effectively at the same time safeguarding your identity and personal information.
There are various anti virus software some free and others commercial.

As long as software is being actively supported by the vendor, there will always be updates. These are patches that add new
features, fix bugs and close security holes. Operating system updates are important to install because when the vendors
launch their software it's not 100% error free and also technology keeps changing all the time. The most convenient way to 
update your system without having such a task interrupt your work is by simply automating the updates.

The usage of email addresses is really popular given the fact that owning one is free. In the emails we receive various
messages from auto subscriptions to anonymous senders and also senders we know. Emails have been targeted and used many
times by individuals setting traps to infiltrate networks or get access to a particular device or computer. With the growing
technology, many of such emails are detected automatically and put into the Spam/Junk folder but yet again some genuine
ones are sometimes marked as spam. The dangerous emails usually come with an attachment to open or an image or a website link.
Clicking on any of those puts your system at so many risks like malware intrusion that may edit, destroy or copy confidential
files with malicious intentions. The best way is to delete emails that you don't understand or contain information that you
didn't ask for.

For a safe working environment, it is advised to grant the minimum privileges possible and necessary to accounts, and remove 
inactive accounts. The last utility, which shows the last time each user logged into the system, can be used to help identify
potentially inactive accounts which are candidates for system removal.
