Ever wonder what happens from the time when you press the power button on your computer up to when you see the login screen, 

I'll be sharing details of what happens behind the scenes and in particular I'll use the Linux Operating System. 
The process in most operating systems is the same though some system file names names may differ.

The process of starting up a computer is called Booting, the computer initializing and getting the hardware and software
ready for you. 

The BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) is a special type of firmware used in the booting process. It is the first software
that is run when the computer is powered on. It's primary purpose is to test the underlying components and to load Boot Loader
or the operating system. The BIOS performs a Power On Self Test(POST). The POST performs some basic checks of various hardware
components such as the CPU, Memory and Storage devices.
Only if the POST succeeds will the BIOS attempt to load the Boot Loader.

The BIOS contains a list of Boot Devices such as the Harx Disks, USB Devices, DVD Drives and others depending on the hardware
being used. The BIOS searches that list for a bootable device in the order specified.
You can change this order by interrupting the Boot Sequence and entering into the configuration for the BIOS.
The key combination used to do this will vary from one hardware manufacturer to another.

Once the Bootable device has been found, the. BIOS will run the Boot Loader.
Typically the The GRUB (Grand Unified Boot Loader) will be used but you may run into some older Linux systems that still use
the LILO (Linux Loader) Boot Loader.
The primary purpose of the Boot Loader is to start the operating system. Typically you will see a series of messages from
the Boot Loader will allow you to interact with the Boot Loader. If there are multiple operating systems installed, you can
tell the Boot Loader which operating system to run.

The Initial RAM disk (initrd) is a temporary file system that is loaded into memory when the system boots. This file system
contains helpers that perform hardware detection and load the necessary modules sometimes called drivers to get the actual
system melted. For example if the root file system is stored on an LVM (Logical Volume Manager) Volume, the initrd image
will contain the Kernel modules required to melt that logical volume as the root file system.
Once the initrd melts the actual root file system, it's job is done and the operating system continues loading from the
real root file system.

NOTE: All the files needed to boot the Linux operating system are stored in /boot Directory
